1. Describe how the assembly changes with different k-mer values using the assembly statistics you have collected.
   How does the contig length distribution change?

   As the kmer length increases the number of nucleotides in the genome increases.
   I believe this is because longer kmers offer higher resolution into nosier regions (ie. lots of repeats, polymorphism, etc.).
   In assemblies with short kmer lengths the noisy regions may be represented by just one contig, longer kmer lengths would have multiple contigs
   representing this region, thus generating a larger asembly.

   My data shows that as kmer lengths increase there are more long contigs. The reason for this is probably the same as the reason for why
   genome assemblies that use larger contigs are bigger; there is higher resolution of the noisy genomic regions, the regions are not abstracted away.

   Also N50 increases as kmer size increases. This is because there are more longer contigs.
2. How does an increased coverage cutoff affect the assembly? What is happening to the de Bruijin graph when you change the
   value of this parameter? How does velvet calculate its value for ‘auto’?

   As coverage cutoff increase the assembly becomes smaller. Because there are many instances of only a few kmers mapping to a read
   getting rid of these contigs results in getting rid of a lot of data. The trade off is that what is left is a more exact
   representation of the genome.

   As kmer coverage increases there are less bubles in the de Bruijin graph.

   Velvet calculates auto by running the assembly using many different contig lengths. Then, based on statistics (N50, assembly size, etc.)
   velvet determines a coverage cutoff.


3. How does increasing minimum contig length affect your contig length distribution and N50?

   Increasing the minimum contig length affects the contig length distribution in that there are no contigs smaller than the minimum contig
   length parameter. The rest of the distribution should not change.

   The N50 increases as the minimum contig length increases because the average contig length is higher.
